One of the questions I've received is how to configure a layer 3 switch in Jinnah's 3 for this demonstration.
I'm going to use an Iowa V later to switch the Iowas Ivy League to sports both late to as well as Layer
3 switching what I'll do is use two routers as PCs and the topology these devices take a while to boot
up.
So I'll start them and open up console's to them as you can see on the output.
Here we've got Iowas the booting on the three devices.
What I'll do now is Connect the rods to the switch.
So at the moment we've got two Rajahs connected to this Leia's three switch.
The rod is in this example are acting as PCs so I'm simply going to use them to demonstrate villans
and layer 3 configuration on this layer 3 switch
the focus of this video will be the configuration of villans on the switch and the configuration of
interval and routing.
In other words getting the switch to act as a last three device so the switch is booted up show IP interface
brief.
There are various interfaces available on the switch.
Show villaine brief shows us that only the default villains exist on the switch.
So what I'll do is give the switch a name switch one and then I'll create two villains on the switch.
So show the LAN brief we've got the one the line two and violent 3.
Configured on the switch at the moment.
The road is booted so I'll bypass the initial config on those two routers acting as our PCs in the topology
unnoticed show interface you give it 00 switch port.
This port is in Villon one that's the default.
The same is true for the second port.
What we'll do however is configure gigabit 00 to be in violent too and gigabit.
0 1 will be put into villaine 3 So now show interface gigabit 00 switch port.
Shows us that gigabit 0 0 is in V land to and gigabit to 0 1 is he's in learn three show IP route on
the switch.
Shows us that IP running is enabled.
If I disable IP routing and use the command show IP route notice the output is very different to when
IP routing is enabled.
Now in these Iowa Sivy late two switches IP writing is enabled by default but it's often not enabled
on real physical switches so we enable into line routing or layer free functionality we need to have
the IP routing Kamandi enabled on the switch.
Show IP interface brief shows us the physical interfaces to enable in TV land routing between the villains
we need to configure IP addresses in the relevant villans on what are called switch virtual interfaces
or a Fiore's some Both are violent too.
And we learned three we need to configure IP addresses in the relevant subnet.
So show IP interface brief we can see that an IP address is configured on the land too and on the 3
I need to know shut those files.
So now show
IP interface brief we can see that those two Fiore's or Layer 3 interfaces for the villains are configured
and the eyes are up.
That's how you configure a switch for into the land routing and layer 3 functionality.
So on the router acting as a PC I can no shut the interface and give it an IP address in the villain
such as the following.
All disable IP routing on the router and configure an IP default gateway of 10 to 1 to 2 2 to 5 4.
So show IP route on the router shows us that IP riding's disabled can be paying the default gateway.
Yes we can on this side will do something similar.
So confetti host rodder to interface could give 0 0 no Shutt IP address 10 1 3 1 2 4 5 2 4 5 2 4 5 0
0 0 IP routing to disable routing and make this act like a PC IP default gateway 10 1 3 2 5 4 paying
10 1 3 2 5 4 so Rodda two components default gateway.
So what we should be able to do now is ping Rodda 2 from router 1 which we can and to prove that all
de-bug IP ICMP on the side and paying the router from Rodda to and you can see that the pings arrived
and an echo reply was sent.
So now if we disable IP writing on the last three switch what will happen is the pings no longer work
because the switch is no longer acting as a layer 3 switch layer 3 capability has been disabled on the
switch enable IP rotting and rotting takes place and pings can be sent from one router to the other.
So rotted to gimping right a one and Rodda one can ping router too.
So that was a simple example of how to enable him to villaine rotting on a switch.
In other words make it act as a layer three switch.
I hope you enjoyed this video if it's been of benefit to you please like it please subscribe to my YouTube
channel.
I wish you all the very best.